DURC Naming Convention Details
====================

DURC represents a system for naming database tables, that allows for the automatic creation from those tables of ORM and form components, as described in [DURC.md](/AI_instructions/DURC.md)

DURC Table and Column Naming Conventions
--------------------

In order to make that work, strict rule must be followed during the design of the database tables, regarding table names, and column names especially, in order to infer the linking and form elements automatically. Here are those rules:

* You must have SERIAL and PRIMARY key set on the 'id' field of each table. This is what DURC will link things to.
* Do not use plural names in your tables. DURC is singular only and does not do any transforms between singluar and plural. They are too complicated and do not provide enough benifit.
* If you want to link a field to the id of another table, then ensure that you end the field name with YourThing_id, where YourThing is the name of the other table. This happens even if there is no foreign key.
* If there is a foreign key, then it will be honored when designing the Many to One and One to Many relationships inferred by DURC into the DJANGO ORM layer.
* You can have more than one linking key, so Another_YourThing_id and AFine_YourThing_id will both work as expected to link to YourThing.id column in the YourThing table. The same is true of columns with foreign keys.
* You can use CamelCase in your table names, but the engine will be converting everything to lower case as it conducts its relational inference.
* Many to many relationships are ignored at the form generation level, instead DURC will resolve a two many-to-one relationship to the central table. You can override this in your client code if desired.
* One of the main features of DURC is the ability to use autocomplete to link fields to one another using the interface. This automatic behavior needs to understand which field in a table will be used inside the autocomplete for other data types to link to. 
* The label for the select element is autogenerated based on the following rules: 
  * If there is a field called select_name then the system understands that to be the answer
  * After that, it chooses the first text fields with 'name' or 'label' as postfixes to the column name. If it does not find a matching name... 
  * Then DURC will choose the first text column in the table as the "autosuggest match" column.
* If an integer fields beigns with is_ then it is regarded as being a boolean and will be replaced with a checkbox or a radio button in the final field. Of course BOOLEAN types also get this treatment.

* suppose you want to have a table in the database that is ignored by DURC.... simply prefix the table with an underscore. So DURC will not pay attention to a table called.  _ignoreme or _reallyimportant

Later Features
-----------------

These are naming conventions for features that DURC does not yet implement. 

* Later Feature - DURC natively understands markdown fields. if you name a field with an ending of _markdown it will automatically display a markdown editory in the DURC screen
* Later Feature - Naming a field with a postfix of '_code' (like 'this_is_very_good_code') will turn the DURC html screen into a code editor and will use the CodeMirror to create a code editor. So ending a text or varchar column type with with _sql_code will serve to change that field into a code editor using the sql mode.
* Later Feature - The _code postfix strings are usually by the CodeMirror mode name, with some exceptions to be documented later.
